docfx/articles/ixr/IXR.md, before:

# IXR - resx compiler for AX

Ixr is command line tool which can generate resx files for AX projects. Resx file contains localizable strings from project, that can be further used in translation.

## Quick start

### 1. Install ixr tool

~~~
dotnet tool install AXSharp.ixr --prerelease --local
~~~

### 2. Run ixr compiler

~~~
dotnet ixr -x $PATH_TO_AX_PROJECT -o $PATH_TO_RESX_FILE
~~~

where:  
`$PATH_TO_AX_PROJECT` - is path to **AX project**  
`$PATH_TO_RESX_FILE` - is path to **resx file**, where the localizable strings will be generated

Localizable string are exported only from string attributes and pragmas of attribute name.

## Localizable string

Localizable string must start with `<#` and end with `#>` tags.  
For example:  
`'<#This is localizable string#>'`

Also you can connecting localizable and non-localizable string together.  
For example:  
`'This is non-localizable string <#This is localizable string#>'`

## Special characters

Ixr support all these special characters:  
``!"#$'()*+,-.:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~€``  
No other characters can be used.

## Notes

Ixr is still in early development, so some features may be missing and bugs may occur.

Commit message:

[NEW-FEATURE] Implement use of resx for translation of PLC strings (#144)
* Create draft PR for #143

* [ixr] multiple adjustments to allow use of resx in twin projects
- [breaking] the ixc now creates csproj files with names that comply with identifier requirements (due to resx generator using the project name by default to generate resources) files with name using '-' will now use instead '_' (e.g. ax-blazor-example.csproj will be ax_blazor_example.csproj).
- ixr when no parameter provided will use current directory (apax) as the source (-x) and will retrieve the information about the output project from 'AXSharp.config.json' file. Providing output paramters will not alter the content of config file.
- resource identifier creator was moved to AXSharp.Connector to share the same logic when creating and searching indentifiers.
- resource injection for the translator [wip]

* comiler now adds reference to assembly resources for plc string translation
- we create new class `PlcTranslator` for each assembly (twin project) that provides `Resources.PlcStringResources` as default resource for given assembly. All members that can contain data eligible for localizaions refernce the singleton of this 'PlcTranslator'.

* added missing expected files for testing to sc

* updates docfx to 2.64.0

* namespace removed from usings due to a problem in documentation generation

* adds infomation about parameterless execution of ixr

* multiple addition due localization
- adds translator to generated added properties of string type
- simplifies translator
- refactoring localization helper to AXSharp.Connector.Localization namespace

* adds documenation how-to localization

---------

Co-authored-by: PTKu <PTKu@users.noreply.github.com>

docfx/articles/ixr/IXR.md, after:

# IXR - resx compiler for AX

Ixr is command line tool which can generate resx files for AX projects. Resx file contains localizable strings from project, that can be further used in translation.

## Quick start

### 1. Install ixr tool

~~~
dotnet tool install AXSharp.ixr --prerelease --local
~~~

### 2. Run ixr compiler

~~~
dotnet ixr -x $PATH_TO_AX_PROJECT -o $PATH_TO_RESX_FILE
~~~

where:  
`$PATH_TO_AX_PROJECT` - is path to **AX project**  
`$PATH_TO_RESX_FILE` - is path to **resx file**, where the localizable strings will be generated

Localizable string are exported only from string attributes and pragmas of attribute name.

`ixr` can be run without parameters from within an AX project folder. In that case it will use the settings from `ixc` `AXSharp.config.json` and emit the resource file into `.g\Resource\PlcStringResource.resx` file of the ax twin project.

>[!NOTE]
>More about implementing resx file into your project see [here](~/articles/connectors/README.md#controller-string-localization).

## Localizable string

Localizable string must start with `<#` and end with `#>` tags.  
For example:  
`'<#This is localizable string#>'`

Also you can connecting localizable and non-localizable string together.  
For example:  
`'This is non-localizable string <#This is localizable string#>'`

## Special characters

Ixr support all these special characters:  
``!"#$'()*+,-.:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~€``  
No other characters can be used.

## Notes

Ixr is still in early development, so some features may be missing and bugs may occur.
