docs/api/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent/RenderableContentControl.md, before:

# RenderableContentControl class

This class implements main logic behind auto-generated UI.

```csharp
public class RenderableContentControl : ComponentBase, IDisposable
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [RenderableContentControl](RenderableContentControl/RenderableContentControl.md)() | The default constructor. |
| [AttributesHandler](RenderableContentControl/AttributesHandler.md) { get; set; } |  |
| [Class](RenderableContentControl/Class.md) { get; set; } | Parameter Class serves for styling of elements. |
| [ComponentService](RenderableContentControl/ComponentService.md) { get; set; } |  |
| [Context](RenderableContentControl/Context.md) { get; set; } | Parameter Context accept ITwinElement instance, which is used as base model for UI generation. |
| [MainLayoutType](RenderableContentControl/MainLayoutType.md) { get; set; } |  |
| [Presentation](RenderableContentControl/Presentation.md) { get; set; } | Parameter Presentation specify mode, in which view UI is generated. Type PresentationType is used. |
| [Dispose](RenderableContentControl/Dispose.md)() |  |

## Protected Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| override [BuildRenderTree](RenderableContentControl/BuildRenderTree.md)(…) |  |
| override [OnInitialized](RenderableContentControl/OnInitialized.md)() |  |
| override [OnParametersSet](RenderableContentControl/OnParametersSet.md)() |  |

## See Also

* namespace [Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent](../Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.dll -->

Commit message:

Polling for primitive types (#69)
* Create draft PR for #66
* adds polling mechanism
* updates tests adding Polling method
* adds polling integration tests
* adds documentation to connector, doc layout
---------

Co-authored-by: PTKu <PTKu@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/api/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent/RenderableContentControl.md, after:

# RenderableContentControl class

This class implements main logic behind auto-generated UI.

```csharp
public class RenderableContentControl : ComponentBase, IDisposable
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [RenderableContentControl](RenderableContentControl/RenderableContentControl.md)() | The default constructor. |
| [AttributesHandler](RenderableContentControl/AttributesHandler.md) { get; set; } |  |
| [Class](RenderableContentControl/Class.md) { get; set; } | Parameter Class serves for styling of elements. |
| [ComponentService](RenderableContentControl/ComponentService.md) { get; set; } |  |
| [Context](RenderableContentControl/Context.md) { get; set; } | Parameter Context accept ITwinElement instance, which is used as base model for UI generation. |
| [MainLayoutType](RenderableContentControl/MainLayoutType.md) { get; set; } |  |
| [PollingInterval](RenderableContentControl/PollingInterval.md) { get; set; } | Gets or sets polling interval for PLC variables of this controls context in ms. |
| [Presentation](RenderableContentControl/Presentation.md) { get; set; } | Parameter Presentation specify mode, in which view UI is generated. Type PresentationType is used. |
| [Dispose](RenderableContentControl/Dispose.md)() |  |

## Protected Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| override [BuildRenderTree](RenderableContentControl/BuildRenderTree.md)(…) |  |
| override [OnInitialized](RenderableContentControl/OnInitialized.md)() |  |
| override [OnParametersSet](RenderableContentControl/OnParametersSet.md)() |  |

## See Also

* namespace [Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent](../Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.dll -->
