docs/api/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent/RenderableComponentBase.md, before:

# RenderableComponentBase class

Base class which implements methods to update UI when PLC values are changed.

```csharp
public class RenderableComponentBase : ComponentBase, IRenderableComponent
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [RenderableComponentBase](RenderableComponentBase/RenderableComponentBase.md)() | The default constructor. |
| [CssSymbol](RenderableComponentBase/CssSymbol.md)(…) |  |
| [UpdateShadowValuesOnChange](RenderableComponentBase/UpdateShadowValuesOnChange.md)(…) | Method, which updates are primitive shadow values of ITwinObject ITwinObject instance. (2 methods) |
| [UpdateValuesOnChange](RenderableComponentBase/UpdateValuesOnChange.md)(…) | Method, which updates are primitive values of ITwinObject instance ITwinObject instance. (2 methods) |

## Protected Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [HandlePropertyChanged](RenderableComponentBase/HandlePropertyChanged.md)(…) |  |
| [HandleShadowPropertyChanged](RenderableComponentBase/HandleShadowPropertyChanged.md)(…) |  |

## See Also

* namespace [Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent](../Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.dll -->

Commit message:

[DOCUMENTATION] Add conceptual overview of IX  (#41)
* Create draft PR for #40

* [documentation] documention update
- short conceptual overview
- fixed API doc generation

* additional examples Blazor renderer

---------

Co-authored-by: PTKu <PTKu@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/api/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls/Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent/RenderableComponentBase.md, after:

# RenderableComponentBase class

Base class which implements methods to update UI when PLC values are changed.

```csharp
public class RenderableComponentBase : ComponentBase, IRenderableComponent
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [RenderableComponentBase](RenderableComponentBase/RenderableComponentBase.md)() | The default constructor. |
| [HasFocus](RenderableComponentBase/HasFocus.md) { get; set; } |  |
| [CssSymbol](RenderableComponentBase/CssSymbol.md)(…) |  |
| [UpdateShadowValuesOnChange](RenderableComponentBase/UpdateShadowValuesOnChange.md)(…) | Method, which updates are primitive shadow values of ITwinObject ITwinObject instance. (2 methods) |
| [UpdateValuesOnChange](RenderableComponentBase/UpdateValuesOnChange.md)(…) | Method, which updates are primitive values of ITwinObject instance ITwinObject instance. (2 methods) |
| [UpdateValuesOnChangeOutFocus](RenderableComponentBase/UpdateValuesOnChangeOutFocus.md)(…) | Method, which updates primitive value only, when element is out of focus. Public property IsFocus can be set. If is true, element won't be updated. IValueTag instance. |

## Protected Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [HandlePropertyChanged](RenderableComponentBase/HandlePropertyChanged.md)(…) |  |
| [HandlePropertyChangedOnOutFocus](RenderableComponentBase/HandlePropertyChangedOnOutFocus.md)(…) |  |
| [HandleShadowPropertyChanged](RenderableComponentBase/HandleShadowPropertyChanged.md)(…) |  |

## See Also

* namespace [Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.RenderableContent](../Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Ix.Presentation.Blazor.Controls.dll -->
